# Inputs



## Regional Forecast

The regional forecast contains infromation on the region’s overall growth trajectory. These tables contain only one value per variable per forecast for the entire region. They are generated by the REMI model and various scripts. The first two tables are standard for all UrbanSim applications, while the third contains a variety of data that is combined with other information using scripts within BAUS in order to produce required inputs to the Travel Model:

regional_controls.csv
These are regional level controls which give us employed residents and the age distribution, which are used to provide inputs to the travel model which UrabanSim is not natively simulating at this time.

employment_controls.csv
The total number of jobs forecast to exist in the Bay Area in each forecast year. This means BAUS will ensure that its forecast conforms to these numbers. The values area counts of jobs. The values are segmented into each 5-year intervals (2010 to 2050) and into six sectors.

household_controls.csv
The total number of households forecast to live in the Bay Area in each forecast year. This means BAUS will ensure that its forecast conforms to these numbers. The values area counts of households. The values are segmented into 5-year intervals (2010 to 2050) and into four categories of approximate household income quartiles.

county_forecat_inputs.csv

county_employmnet_forecast.csv

baseyear_taz_controls.csv



## Zonal Forecasts

zone_forecast_inputs.csv
This is closely related to regional_controls.csv.  Both are only used in the summary step to create output variables used by the travel model which are not endogenously created in UrbanSim.  These are zone level inputs for that process, the other file contains regional-level controls.

taz_growth_rates_gov_ed.csv
Ratios of gov't and education employment per population (sometimes at the TAZ level, sometimes for each county, and sometimes regionally). This csv actually has two header rows - this first row is what the outcome attribute is, and the second is the geography at which the ratio acts (taz / county / regional).

baseyear_taz_controls.csv
This contains our expected base year control totals by taz - number of units, vacancy rates, employment by sector (but not households).

employment_relocation_rates.csv
Relocation rates by sector by zone so we can e.g. leave City Hall populated by civic sector jobs.




## Base Year Data [moving to BASIS]


### Parcels, Buildings, Households, Jobs

bayarea_v3.h5
Base year database of: households, jobs, buildings, and parcels. These are pre-processed.

costar.csv
Commercial data for nores hedonic estimation

parcels_geography.csv
Lookup toble from parcel's geom_id to ids for juris, growth geographies,, exp (expansion area), opp_id (catalyst site), and a concatenation of these used to join to the zoning_mod tables below. Also has perfoot, perfarea, and urbanized.

development_projects.csv
This is the list of projects that have happened since the base data, or that we think will happen in the future.  It is the development pipeline.  This file tends to have more attributes than we actually use in UrbanSim.

deed_restricted_zone_totals.csv
This is the number of deed restricted units per taz.  We don't have a great idea of exactly where those units are, but we have an aggregate idea, so we usually do a random assignment within that taz.


### Existing Planned Land Use

zoning_parcels.csv
Lookup table from parcel's geom_id to zoning_id, some zoning area info and a nodev flag which seems to be all zeros.

zoning_lookup.csv
The zoning lookup is the current, baselin zoning for each jurisdiction, and can be assigned to parcels.  The lookup is identified by the unique id ("id" column), has the city name, city id, and the name of the zoning.The active attributes are max_dua, max_far, and max_height, all of which must be respected by each development, so this means the most constraining constraint has the power.  dua is "Dwelling Units per Acre", far is "Floor Area Ratio" (ratio of square footage in building to square footage on parcel), and height is height.

In some cases there is an equivlance between dua and far if they are not both present.  This is tricky, and requires knowing things like average unit sizes, as well as net to gross factors for the unit square footage.  We make our best guesses on this, but this logic can be configured.  There also must be an equivalance between far and height, which generally is made by taking far and multiplying is by a net to gross building footprint factor (e.g. a calculation to figure out the height of a building with FAR 4.0, when the footprint of the building takes up 80% or so of the parcel, when stories are all 12 feet, and where partial stories count as full stories in terms of height).  As you are thinking at this point, we are bad building architects, but we're making rough approximations here in order to allocate built space in the region and this feels like the appropriate level of detail.

The other columns are building types, and the values are 0 or 1 to indicate whether the type is allowed on this parcel.  For instance, HS is single family, HT is townhome (attached), and HM is multi-family (apartments / condos) and so forth.  R for retail, OF is office, and M is mixed. Max_du_per_parcel is not currently used because we don't necessarily trust our data, but in theory is used to say, e.g., that only a single unit can be built on each parcel. Note that a blank value in the csv means that there is no constraint for that attribute and the other constraints will be used.  If there is no constraint for any of far, height, and dua, a building will NOT be built. By convention a 0 in dua, far, and height is discouraged.  It is preferred to use the "building type not allowed" columns for this.


### Lookup tables

parcel_to_taz1454sub.csv
Lookup table from parcel's parcel_id to

parcel_to_maz22.csv
Lookup table from parcel's geom_id or parcel_id to maz.

census_id_to_name.csv
For some reason the current parcels_geography file uses census id instead of name. This is the file that maps those ids to names so we can use it within UrbanSim.

taz_geography.csv
Mapping of tazs to superdistricts and counties (by id).




## Plan strategies

zoning_mods.csv
These are the files which contain scenario-based zoning.  They are typically used to upzone dua and far in pdas.  Parcels are joined to this file using the field "zoningmodcat" which are "policy zones" which are the cross product of jurisdiction, tpp, expansion zone, and opportunity site areas. "dua_up" and "far_up" are used to do the upzoning (these can never result in a downzoning), and building types can also be added.

vmt_fee_zonecats.csv
These are the res/non-res fee categories, which actually identify the low and high VMT zones (technically there are 4 categories).  The VMT zones get mapped to fees in settings.yaml.




## Adjusters

juris_assumptions.csv
These are simulation assumptions that apply per jurisdiction.  Currently, the only attribute used is "minimum_forecast_retail_jobs_per_household" which is used to keep local serving retail appropriate for each jurisdiction.

juris_controls.csv
This is the revised set of household numbers which we needed to match late in the planning process. A few small cities correctly alerted us to the fact that our TAZ data had the wrong population in some cases (in a few cases the census was even petitioned to be changed).

manual_edits.csv
A csv of manual edits so we don't have to create a new H5 every time we want to edit a single parcel or building.  Simply give the table name, attribute name, and new value, and BAUS will override current data using edits form this file.

superdistricts.csv
These are superdistrict attributes, including name, subregion (the superdistricts are aggregated even further), and sqft_per_job which varies by superdistrict and is used to create an appropriate vacancy rate.

additional_units.csv
Additional units is a way to hard code the addition of units by city in order to force capacity.  It's a similar model to the "refiner" models common for UrbanSim praxis, but doesn't actually affect household/job totals, just the supply side.

household_building_id_overrides.csv
This is used to move households around to match new city household totals.  When we have a new assignment process and a new assignment this file should go away (we needed to update household locations for a small number of households very late in the planning process).

abag_targets.csv
These are the households and jobs expected per pda and non-pda jurisdiction as agreed upon using ABAG's local knowledge.  We use this to compare against UrbanSim output.

tpp_id_2016.csv
This is a mapping of parcel ids to new tpp_ids, which are used for analyzing output. This can go away when we have a new parcels_geography file with new tpps.

rhna_by_juris.csv
These are the RHNA numbers by jurisdiction for the time period between 2014 and 2022.




### Accessibility Files

landmarks.csv
The lat-lng locations of a few major landmarks in the region, which are avialable for use in the modeling.

logsums.csv
This is the set of baseyear logsums from the MTC travel model. This is available for use in the modeling and is a key compoenent of the integrated modeling effort.

regional_poi_distances.csv
These are the distances from each travel model node to each landmark.  It's precomputed and stored in this file because it never changes.  It could be recomputed every time, with the only cost being performance.

tmnet.h5
For use with pandana

osm_bayarea4326.h5
Street network

bart_stations.csv
This is a list of BART stations and their locations so that distance to BART can be used in the modeling.